Analysis questions:
1. The solution to this problem can be approached as a regression where
we wish to measure the probability of a binary outcome (that a driver
near the 10-hour shift threshold will cross it) as a function of one or
more parameters. Features of likely use might include the time of day,
day of the week, and various quantities derived from the prior activity
patterns of the driver. I adopt the following simple approach: for
each driver, I do batch processing in Spark to compute the probability
distribution P that describes their likelihood of being on-shift as a
function of time of the day, conditioned on the driver being on-shift
at a particular time T at which we wish to make the projection. See
batch.py and projection.py to see how this is implemented.

2. I implemented a browser-based streaming UI. Note that it requires
prior batch processing (a model for each driver is computed in Spark and
saved to an sqlite database; time-ordering of pickup and dropoff events
is also done using spark). The streaming component itself consists of
two components: a producer that simulates real-time information on taxi
pickups and dropoffs by reading from the sqlite database, and a consumer
that records these events and uses the precomputed models to identify
drivers likely to exceed the 10 hour shift limit. The producer and
consumer communicate via a pub-sub messaging pattern implemented using
ZeroMQ. The consumer's Python process also hosts a flask server that
communicates with an in-browser interface via jQuery.

A list of drivers expected to cross the 30 minute threshold
(in decreasing order of projected likelihood) within the next
30 minutes of 4/9/2013, 15:00:00, is included in the text file
14-09-15-00_near_threshold.txt.

3. I used the Getis Ord statistic to identify hot spots of taxi pickup
activity (implementation in batch.py). Sites with high activity,
indicating possible presence of a taxi stand, include airports
(LaGuardia and JFK), Grand Central Station, and the Port Authority bus
terminal.


Qualitative questions:
1. For example: day of the week, date of the year, and time of the
driver's first ride. Doing logistic regression on all these features
would be a likely improvement on my simple approach.

2. These complications would cause my approach to fail unless an
additional step were taken to remove spurious rides. Such rides might
be identifiable by durations much shorter or much longer than that of a
typical ride.

3. An additional way to identify anomalous rides might be to compare
nominal speed of travel with realistic values and reject instances in
which the discrepancy is large.
